---
layout: post
title:  "EECS 482 Notes"
date:   2024-1-17
categories: course
---

Notes for EECS482.

<!-- more -->

## Process, Thread

### Process

- A process contains the state for a program to run.
- Process has its own virtual memory, CPU, open files.
- Process and Program: when a **program** runs, it becomes a **process**
- A process has memory (code, data, executing stack), Program Counter (PC),
    some registers, some OS resources (open files, network connections)

### Thread

- Thread defines a sequence of execution stream.
- Thread has it own PC, SP, Registers

### Relationship

- A thread is bound to a process.
- A process can have many threads.
  - Sometimes interact, sometimes work independently

### Per-thread State

- Each thread has its own PC, SP,
- The Data Segment (Heap + Static variables) is shared

---

## Synchronization

- **Atomic actions** are the unit of **interleaving**.
- Controlling how events from different threads can interleave is called **synchronization**.
- **Mutual exclusion**
- Critical section
  - Mutual exclusion: Safe
  - Progress: Liveness
  - Bounded waiting: Liveness
  - Performance
- **Busy waiting**: consumes CPU while waiting.
- Lock (Mutex)
  - Lock: acquire the lock **atomically**. Or blocked and consume no CPU.
  - Unlock: release the lock.

---

## Mutex

- **Safe State**: respect the invariant.
  - For the list, each node appears once, and the last node points to `null`.
- Fine-grained Locking
  - One lock per node.
  - Hand-over-hand Locking.
- Ordering constraints.
  - **Wait** (atomic)
    - Release
    - add to the waiting list
    - go to sleep
  - Wake using **signal** (wake up one waiting thread), **boardcast** (wake up all).
  - ***Always wait in a while loop!***

---

## Monitor

- A monitor = a lock + CV
- Mesa / Hoare Monitor (less popular).
- Use one CV for each before-after condition.
- Better `signal()` before `unlock()`.
- Producer and Consumer (bounded buffer).
  - Coke Machine with monitors
    - Shared state: `numCokes` <- `cokeLock`
    - Before-After CV: `waitingConsumers` `waitingProducers`
- Signal vs. Boardcast
  - Use `signal` when both are true:
    - Only one waiting thread makes progress.
    - Any waiting thread can be that thread.

## Semaphores

- Main Functions
  - `down()`: wait for semaphore value to become positive, then decrement semaphore value by 1.
  - `up()` increment semaphore value by 1.
- Binary Semaphores
  - Semaphore value is 0 or 1.
  - `up()` atomically sets value to 1.
- Must not hold “lock” (semaphore) when calling down() for ordering.

---

## Build a thread

> so far is about the concurrency

- non-running thread
  - a paused execution
  - context switch
- Thread control Block
  - In memory
  - meaningful only when the thread is not running
- States about a thread
  - New, Running, Blocked, Terminated, Ready
  - State Queues
- Thread return control to CPU
  - Internal events,External events
- Interrupt Vector Table (IVT)
  - Hardware: how
  - OS: what

---

## Switching Threads

- CPU perform the steps
- The OS is trusted to do correctly
- Create a new thread:
  - Allocate TCB
  - Allocate Stack
  - Init TCB
  - Add TCB to a ready queue

---

### Implement Lock and Unlock

- Atomicity on uniprocessor
  - Unsafe to run user code with interrupts disabled
  - Thread must leave interrupts disabled when calling switch
- Switch invariant
  - All threads promise to have interrupts disabled when calling switch
  - All threads can assume that interrupts are “still” disabled when switch returns

### Dead Lock

- Four conditions
  - Limited resources
  - Hold and Wait
  - No Preemption
  - Circular Wait

## Address Space

### MMU (Per CPU)

- Speed, Size, Flexibility
- Two mechanisms
  - Base and Limit
  - Segmentation

<script src="https://fastly.jsdelivr.net/gh/stevenjoezhang/live2d-widget@latest/autoload.js"></script>
