---
layout: post
title:  "Crossroads of Life"
date:   2024-11-20 12:57:49 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---

Today marked my **second visit to the dentist**. I am more familiar with the building's maze-like layout. The student dentists were kind and attentive, showing genuine concerns for my sore jaw. The doctor, on the other hand, was quite the jokester. He kept joking about my teeth. Knowing that I barely drink soda or eat sweets, he teased me about my habit of cakes and chocolates. "If you do not want to end up back here", he said with a grin, "stay away from cakes." I consented. **Maybe skipping cakes in the Bursley for dinner is not a good idea.**

Later, after my LLM class, I made my way to the **Honda Repair shop** -- a trip that felt like its own kind of amusing torment. Talking to my closest stranger felt so awkward for me. I kept trying to spark conversations, but nothing click. Maybe it is better to just be myself and make things unfold naturally, without forcing anything. **Struggling with a "correct" topic is not me, not "keke"**. When asked about what is my point that attracts her at first, the reply is simple, being **genuine and responsible**. It is a joke for me as many people around me share this common points, but I agreed. Maybe being simple, reponsible, and genuine is the best way to proceed, without controlling others and just being friends.

I have been detached from my life lately, like nothing is real. I can feel the large gap few days ago, where I believed that we can go forever. The aftermath is always **intangible, fleeting, and memorable**. I can recall the days when we spent in Fujian, Ningbo, also in Umich...But things had gone. I am wandering at crossroads in life, unsure about what lies in the front. Maybe writing makes me figure things out, one step at a time.
